5. Assignment 3 (c) -- building an interpreter

This is the third part of the open-ended design exercise for you to design a small programming language that manipulates vectors and matrices.   The test programs you will ultimately have to code in your own language will be, e.g., transposing a matrix,  inverting a matrix, finding determinants,  An ambitious one will be to write Gaussian elimination in your language.

Befor this part of the assignment, you would have to specified the LEXICAL and GRAMMATICAL ELEMENTS in your language -- using OCaml-Lex and OCaml-Yacc, implementing a  lexer and parser, and created an abstract syntax tree for each input program or returning appropriate error messages.   REMEMBER, good error messages are the mark of a good compiler/interpreter.

Please ensure that you correct the grammar of the language to be Yacc-implementable with no reduce-reduce conflicts, and all shift-reduce conflicts resolved (you may use precedence levels for operators to do so)

In this part, you need to interpret the  (well-typed) ASTs you have created with (an extension of) the module you created in the first assignment  -- you may suitably modify the implementation to cater to features which you had not anticipated, but should clearly mark all new code. 

(1) The output of this phase will be an interpreter for your language for manipulating vectors and matrices.  You may have to extend the eval function appropriately.

(2) You should provide enough test programs written in your toy language, and should that these programs are interpretable and yield the correct answers.  

(3) You should also include enough lexically, grammatically and ill-typed WRONG programs (if you have not already done so in parts a and b of this assignment) to show that your interpreter catches errors.  You should also include programs that raise run-time errors.

(4) The TAs will specify example programs in pseudo-code or some other language.  You should render these in your DSL, and interpret these, yielding the desired results.


As before the syntactic/lexical elements  of your DSL should include:

    Input-Output commands to read in matrices, vectors, floats, integers, etc.   You need to support at least  Input(  <filename> ) and Input( )  as well as Print(<identifier>)
    Variables -- whether boolean, integer, scalar, vector, or matrix  variables.    Typically your variables should at least be some variation of alphanumeric and may have primes and underscores.
    Type names and constructions:  our types include booleans, integers, floats (scalars), vectors of dimension n, and m x n matrices.
    Data: For each type we will have their constants and operations on them 

        Boolean operations including constants, negation, conjunction, disjunction
        Integer and Float operations including constants,  addition, multiplication, subtraction and division and abs. (all of these both for floats and integers;  for integers you also need equality and comparisons, and remainder]
        Vectors — delimited using (rectangular) brackets [ and ] with commas as separators; the vector operations include constant vectors of any given dimension, addition of vectors, scalar multiplication, dot product, and angle, magnitude, dimension etc. 
        Matrices:  m x n matrices modelled in row-major form (as a vector-of-vectors) with operations including constant matrices,  addition of matrices, scalar product with a matrix, matrix multiplication, transpose of a matrix, determinant of square matrices, etc.

Control Constructs  

        Assignment  using := as the assignment symbol
        Sequencing, with commands separated by semicolons, and sequence blocks delimited by {  and }  (as in C, C++, Java)
        Conditionals: if_then_else
        for loops with integer iterator variables and integer variables/constant as loop start/end limits. 
        while loops with a boolean condition 